[SYCL][Doc] Clarify WI funcs in kernel compiler (#12891)
intel/llvm: sycl/doc/extensions/experimental/sycl_ext_oneapi_kernel_compiler_opencl.asciidoc

If the application wants to pass other information from the `local_accessor` to
the kernel (such as the value _N_), it must pass this as separate kernel
arguments.
_{endnote}_]

|A class (or struct) passed by value.
|A {cpp} struct or class that is device copyable, which has the same size and
 data representation as the OpenCL C struct.

[_Note:_ The SYCL argument must not contain any `accessor` or `local_accessor`
members because these types are not device copyable.
If the OpenCL C structure contains a pointer member, the corresponding SYCL
structure member is typically a USM pointer.
_{endnote}_]
|===

When data allocated on the host is accessed by the kernel via a pointer, the
application must ensure that the data has the same size and representation on
the host and inside the OpenCL C kernel.
Applications can use the OpenCL types (e.g. `cl_int`) for this purpose.

=== Iteration space and work-item functions

A `kernel` object created from OpenCL C source code must be launched either as
a single-task kernel or as an nd-range kernel.
Attempting to launch such a kernel with a simple range iteration space results
in undefined behavior.

> If the kernel is launched as a single-task kernel, it is executed with one
> work-group dimension, with one work-group of one work-item.

Reviewer: I'm not sure if this is better, but "one work-group dimension" seemed a little weird to me.

```suggestion
If the kernel is launched as a single-task kernel, it is executed with a
one-dimensional ND-range, with one work-group of one work-item.
```

Author: Yes, that's better.  See dd9fb988a78bab9bdacc05d37842c48aadea5992.

> work-group dimension, with one work-group of one work-item.

Reviewer: The SYCL specification says that a `single_task` can't use `local_accessor`s.  Do we need to state that again somewhere here?

Author: I'm not sure why we need to restrict this, especially since we are documenting that single-task corresponds to a 1-D, 1 work-item nd-range kernel when used to launch an OpenCL (or SPIR-V) kernel.

Reviewer: Ah, okay.  I didn't realize that was allowed.

I still think we should say something, though.  If the behavior was disallowed (because of SYCL rules) then it would be good to reiterate that.  If the behavior is allowed (despite SYCL rules) then a note saying that it's supposed to work would be helpful.  Without saying anything, I'm not sure that the mapping to an ND-range kernel is enough -- all SYCL kernels on an OpenCL backend become an ND-range eventually, but there are still cases where we disallow local accessors.

Author: Done in 12baf159b510243a9861b1a750079a8692b9ec7f.

If the kernel is launched as an nd-range kernel, the number of work-group
dimensions is the same as the number of dimensions in the `nd_range`.
The global size, local size, and the number of work-groups is determined in the
usual way from the `nd_range`.
If the OpenCL C kernel is decorated with the `reqd_work_group_size` attribute,
the local size in the `nd_range` must match this value.

The kernel may call the functions defined in section 6.15.1 "Work-Item
Functions" of the OpenCL C specification, with the following clarification.
Some of these functions take a `dimindx` parameter that selects a dimension
index.
This index has the opposite sense from SYCL.
To illustrate, consider a call to `get_global_size` from a kernel that is
invoked with a 3-dimensional `nd_range`.
Calling `get_global_size(0)` retrieves the global size from dimension 2 of the
`nd_range`, and calling `get_global_size(2)` retrieves the global size from

> dimension 0 of the `nd_range`.

Reviewer: Rather than redefining all this here, could you not just reference [C.7.7](https://registry.khronos.org/SYCL/specs/sycl-2020/html/sycl-2020.html#sec:opencl:kernel-conventions-sycl)?

Author: I agree that we should reference C.7.7 for clarity and context.  Do you prefer to remove the two sentences of redundancy and just say:

> This index has the opposite sense from SYCL, as specified in section C.7.7 "OpenCL kernel conventions and SYCL" of the core SYCL specification.

It seems to me that the two extra sentences don't add a lot of verbosity, and they convey the important information without requiring the user to go find another document.

Either way, I think the SPIR-V specification does need to describe the inversion because section C.7.7 doesn't talk about the SPIR-V built-in variables.

Reviewer: I don't have a strong preference.  Adding a reference to C.7.7 is good enough for me.

I agree that the SPIR-V specification needs to describe the inversion in full.

Author: Done in 3960d76dee0f74054301b0c0c09375390183e01c.
